> Identify social contract and tabula rasa.
Social contrat - people had natural rights and gave up some rights for low and order "blank slak" child was born with a mind that needed to be filled, contrasts with ides of arrestry.
Tabula rasa

> Compare ONE similarity and ONE difference between Thomas Hobbes and John Locke's philosophies.
Hobbes - Give up rights for low and order
Both - Social contract
Locke - Natural right, responsibility to revolt against unjust government

> Identify philosophe and at least ONE example of a person who fit this definition.
18th century thinkers & writers.
Explored social economial politial concepts
Popularized concept that followed scientific thought,

> Describe Baron Montesquieu's ideas about government.
Praised British Parliament for cheeks and balances
Inthased Amerison systen

> Describe Voltaire's main ideas about government.
Appreciated constitutional monardy + cind rights
Campiged for religions liberty a jaderal reform
Thoms Jefferson
Denjamin Franklin Adam Smith
Baron Montesquien Francois-Marie Aroust (Voltaire) Jean-Jacques Rousseau

> Compare Jean-Jacques Rousseau and John Locke's ideas about the social contract.
Rousse an expanded
on
Education ideas laid out
social contract
Concept of General Will and the obligation to carry out

> Describe Adam Smith's main ideas about économy and government.
Laissez-faire, having governments reduce economic intervention, "Invisible hard" guides proper market choices
Mercantilism Capitalion.

> Describe deism and it's beliefs about religion.
Privately owned production
Deism believes divinity set natural lors in motion, but does not interfere
Used scientific inquiry vs Bible study to learn
Viewed church
as necessary
for social guidance

> Describe utopian socialism and explain how ONE person/group mentioned in the chapter created a community that failed or succeeded in creating a utopian socialist society.
Socialism-Pablul dired worker overship Robert Owen Utopian - Society can be channited pootiely
Robert Owen - Intentional, utopion socation copamities Intentional, utopin sentim copamities (New Laank, New Harmon, ) child education, commed annarship, community ruley Refered through Parliament, in gladas H.G. Willy Virginia Wool, George Bernard shar
Fabian Souchy-Reformd through Parliament,
Heng de Saint-Simon- Belief of clen leffcial plans, pulla wodes, Suez Canal
Charles Fourier - 80 passions to make work enjoyable, harmonious liviy is class struggle

> Describe ONE example of how the British government adopted classical liberalism's ideas.
Change in Parliament to reflect charging population patterns for equal parliamentas representation Reton Bills of 1832, 1867, 1884, broadened male suffrage

> Describe Mary Wollstonecraft's main ideas about women and education.
Receive some educator as males, allow women to participate in
Wald women to
gah
the same
right and abilities
a
men
saiety
changed from
British
agration Queen Elizabeth I

> Compare how and when the British, French, and Russian governments abolished serfdom.
Dedin as econ
to industrial, peasant revolts
In
1574
French
1781
Russian
in
1861
Fendelights of nobility abolishal in
Alexander I
Emancipated 23 million serfs, Largest in history

> Explain how anti-Semitism contributed to the Dreyfus Affair.
Sparked Zionist movement, where Jews wanted their own lad to be safe
1894, Alfand Drafus, (French-Tenish militay officer) falsely accused of treason with forged documents shound videspread anti-semition in a place where Jers seened leat oppressed. Increased Zronot support

> What was the context of the Enlightenment? Why did it happen when it happened?
Open-ended

> How did the Enlightenment lead to social changes?
Open-ended