> How did conservatives view revolution?
Against Enlightenment
Vieved revolution as bloody disrupting, unlikely to yield positive results.

> How did the European Enlightenment movement inspire the American Revolution?
Economic idem in revolution, free market
Increning political independence of colorists, seperated decision making

> What ideals are expressed in the Declaration of Independence and what is their connection to the Enlightenment?
Unalienable
right
as
expressed by John Locke
Life, liberty, pursuit of happiness

> Describe the New Zealand Wars and how they led to the growth of Maori people.
British control /anneration of New Zealand led to more contol and
Tensions sparked serie of was between Maori/British, won
Created a sense of Macri nationalism and unity

> What does the phrase liberté, égalité, et fraternité embody?
Liberty, equality, fraternity
French revolutionary ideals
pressu
1840
by Britch in 1872

> What economic issues in France help inspire the French Revolution?
Deficit spanding due to wars, economit aid to Americus
the quel commoner representation forming National Assembly.
in Estates-General Ind to breaking away
and

> Why is the storming of the Bastille the symbolic start of the French Revolution?
was
a
former prison that symbolizal abuses of the monarchy and corrupt
The Bastille bureaucracy. Storming symbolizal symbolized risig up
and rejecting the norms

> What ideals are expressed in the Declaration of the Rights of Man and what is their connection to the Enlightenment?
Declared basic rights of hamers, similar to Locke's ider of a social contract

> How did dissatisfaction with the initial results of the French Revolution lead to the Reign of Terror?
King Louis XVI and mobility refused limited monarchy, led to radical dissatisfaction and Reign & Tenor Government exeation of thousands of revolution opponents

> What ultimately ended the French Revolution?
General Napoleon Bonaparte become emperor of France (1804)

> What was Haiti? Explain how the Haitian Revolution began as a slave revolt. French colony, rich in sugar and coffee
Slaves began killing masters and burning homes, joining Maroous and eventually became

> Who was Toussaint L'Ouverture? What is his role in the Haitian Revolution?
Former slove, become a general. Well-read in Enlightenment thought Established independent, government
Played Spanish / British French against each other.
Declared equal rights constitution
Distributed Land evenly
a
Worked with Freach but betray deimpriand Pied in 1803

> Who was Jean-Jacques Dessalines? What is his role in the Haitian Revolution?
Successor to L'Ouverture
Declared permanent baition independence in 1804

> Compare and contrast the French and Haitian Revolutions.
French Led by commoners
Both Natural rights Freach-contacted Change government
Hilian Led by stores
revolution

> Identify the following Latin American social groups: creoles, mestizos, peninsulares, and
mulattos. Create a diagram to show this hierarchy.
Peninsulares - Moved from Spain / Portugal
Credes - Descendents of European, born in Americas
Mestizos - Europan + Native Auriem descent
Mulattos - Europeand Native + Afrium descent

> What reasons for discontent existed in Latin America prior to the revolutions?
Many creoles were wealthy and opposed mercantilist policies
Credes wanted more
political power, overshadowed by peninsulares
Mestizos wanted political power and wealth

> Who was Simón Bolívar? What was Gran Columbia? What is the "Jamaica Letter"?
Bolivar was a crede that pushed for Enlightenment idants, in dependence in Veresada, Wurbia, Fenedo, Peru. Wealthy family
Gran Colombia
La
a
formation, of lots of land that Boliver achiered fighting the Spanish
Jamaica better cutlines his ideas, free markel, abolition of slavery

> Who were the caudillos and how did they impact the new Latin American governments?
Strong local leaders with regional pover,
Defended elite somitius, peasants others,
Intervened in national polities to make larak governments
Disregarded
of
ruk representen ad

> Describe the results of the Creole Revolutions in Latin America.
Legally ended slavery, but conservative governments that still restricted freadors like voting
Credes formed
upper
clars
Women's role hardly changed

> Who was Lola Rodriguez de Tio? How did she influence rebellion in Puerto Rico and Cuba?
A recognizal port during a the where for woren had eduation.
Critiques of Spain's control over Puerto Rizo, encouraged revolution, have been a Forced into exile, went to Cuba where she worked for Cuban independence
meeting place

> Compare and contrast the Philippines' path to revolution with that of the United States.
Under Spanish control, inspired by Enlightenment, thought, growing sense of nationalism, Propagada Movement, José Rizal's arrest + exection led to challenges to Spanish rule in 1896

> How was nationalism a unifying force in Europe and elsewhere?
Creation of a sense of identity, unifying people under one government Bond with shared language, history, customs

> Describe Italy's path to unification. Include the following: Count di Cavour, Guiseppe Mazzini, Risorgimento, and Guiseppe Garibaldi.
adopted revolution philosophy of Italian resurgence (Risorgiment) from Mazzini, all with Austria to weaken influence,
military force

> What is realpolitik?
Practical politics of reality, as opposed to ideals

> What caused the Revolutions of 1848?
Growing nationalisms and desire for independence from French occupton under Napoleon, and liberalism want for constitutiond representation.
and a

> Describe Germany's path to unification. Include the following: Otto von Bismarck and realpolitik.
Bismark favored realpolitik and used nationalison to bring about his vision, manipulated Austria to participle in Denmark (1864) and Prussia vs Austria (Seven Yeaks' War of 1866), Austria (Seven Weaks' War of 1866), sparked Franco-Prussian War (1870), territory, founded new Goman Empire in 1871
Prussia
VS
helpal Prusia
gun

> How did immigration impact the new Italian nation?
Poverty in Italy caused immigration to United States & Argentina,
Akely worsenal Italm problems?

> How did the following decrease the power of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century? Greek nationalism and independence, European involvement in Balkans
a. Greek nationalism and independence
Increwed contul with Western Europe, brought, Enlightenment +rationalism ideals Learned of Greek rearence in ancient contributions, bringing pride
b. European involvement in Balkans
Outside
Powers
help
groups gan independence after
growing natibantu m
natibank (Serbian, Bulguien, Romanies)
British, French, Russian, Austrian all aided.

> How did the Ottoman Empire attempt to create a more modern, unified state (Ottomanism)?
Minimize ethain linguisti, religious differences
Control of local schods and standard curriculum.
However, this led to more suspicion and increased nationalison

> What is the status of nationalism in the modern world?
Still shapes identities and political allegiances, but EU free trade suggets the world could be shifting away

> Choose one revolution and explain the causes and effects of that particular event.
Open-ended

> Choose two revolutions and craft a brief compare/contrast summary that includes at least 3 points of analysis.
Open-ended