> What is the Industrial Revolution?
A period of new technologies and innovations that dramatically changed societies and
economies

> What is industrialization?
Increasing the mechanization of production

> What events led to the Industrial Revolution?
Columbian Exchange
Rise of maritime trading expres
Increased agricallval productivity
Greater individed capital wealth

> Where did the Industrial Revolution begin?
Begon in Great Britain, spread to Europe then North America

> How did the Agricultural Revolution result in increased food production? Include crop rotation, seed drill, and New World foods.
Crops
gov
in
Proper
soil conditions
Rotating different between fields helped noe food The seed drill made planting seeds more structured and efficient New World foods added
more variety and more calories to diets

> What demographic changes enabled more workers for factories and more consumers for products?
Population growth, impared medical longer lives
Carl
leading to less infant deaths and

> What is cottage industry?
Built out of a surge in denad for cotton after Indian cotton becam amilable Britain imported rav cotton from the Americas which was then Womens' homes
Spun
into cloths in

> Why and how does industrialization first begin in the textile industry? Include spinning jenny, water frame, James Hargreaves, Richard Arkwright, and the factory system.
once
to
spin
the cheel
The cottage industry was slow so new innovations were necessary, James Hargreaves designed the spinning jenny to spin maltile threads at Richard Arkwright designed the water frame (1768), which used frame (1768), which used yater over strength Knowing at the machines, father of factory, system was more efficient and prodantern moral to factories that
cold
it

> What are interchangeable parts? Who invented the system?
Standardized components so if one
Invented by Eli Whitney in 1798
part bake, an
identical replacement would be present

> What is division of labor and how did it lead to specialization of labor? What 20th century concept is a continuation of specialization of labor?
Dinion of labor dindes production of the wade item to just a port. This lead to specialization of Labour as each woder would only focus
Henry Ford's assembly line continues from the iden
on
One
hype of task

> Describe Britain's industrial advantages. Include seaways/rivers, raw materials, colonial possessions, capital, and the concept of private property.
Scanys and rivers were abundent and albod for cheep material transportation
Raw materab involved large coal deposits, powering the stean eagle and iranl steel production
Brikin had resures from colonies like Himber for
ships
Britain had excess capital from the wealth in that roans Atlake sac trade that allowed for investment
Largest fleet for defense and trade, po Protected private popery ascund entrepreneurs their busing would not be Hen

> How did the agricultural revolution and the enclosure movement result in increased urbanization?
Being able to to support more people meart
Enclosure movement was
where the government
forcing Indless Onres
to
More
more people could more aray gave "commans" besed on to urban areas
from rural areas
ho paid for it
avay

> What was the most important cause of the industrial revolution?
Open-ended

> Choose a city or country - what made it a hotbed for the start of the Industrial Revolution?
Open-ended