> How did the steam engine and the internal combustion engine benefit the world?
Powered railroads ships, factories, increased resource access and distribution

> What was the second Industrial Revolution?
Another technological
ware in late 1800s- early 1900,
Invoked chanical steel, precision machinery, electronics

> Who was James Watt? Describe his steam engine.
Inventor who invented steam engine in 1765
Inexpensive harvesting of wal power to create stean and generate power

> How did the steam engine alter water transportation?
built
Steam engines could trand upstream
on steam ship, no longer dependent

> What are coaling stations?
Critical points along trade routes to refuel

> Describe the advances in following industries: Iron production, steel production, oil, electricity, communications
a. iron production Cool helped with
production
Improved processes increased output.
Cake (rchined coal) helped th legs
b. steel production
Bessemer Process helped steel be
Shong and versatile backbone
c. oil
0.1 walls in mid 1800,
on wind
on coal for travel
More workable iron after coton
Mass
produced
Extracted kerosene from petoleun tad to precision machinery and internal contention engine
Automobile and airplane techologies.
d. electricity
First public power station in London 1882.
Street lightag and electric street trans in 1890s
e. communications (telephone and radio)
Electricty led to communicators
Telephone plant à 186
Receive and send radio sigudly around world
1901

> Who were Alexander Graham Bell and Gugliemo Marconi?
Bell patented the first telephone in 1876
Marconi
WN
able to send and receive radio signals

> What was the Transcontinental Railroad?
US railroad that connected Altank and Pacific
across Atlantic Ocer, changing wars media

> How did railroads and the telegraph advance industrial growth?
for immediate communication Telegraph allowed for immediate
Railroads officially transputed natural resources to help with industrial development

> Why did industrialized nations establish colonies?
Colonies provided
access
to
resources and nations wanted to protect those

> Make a Venn diagram to compare and contrast the first and second industrial revolutions. Include at least 4 points of comparison with at least 2 similarities and 2 differences.
Open-ended

> Which had the greater impact on this era: advances in water transportation or railroads? Why?
Open-ended