> What pressures did countries face when deciding to industrialize?
Preservation of traditions
Weak cental
central government
modernization

> Why was the Ottoman Empire nicknamed the "Sick Man of Europe"?
Did not mademize, corruption and decline, nationalism/unrest

> Why did China struggle to industrialize?
Opan War and split into spheres of influence Weak central government in 20th century

> What was Japan's view of industrialization?
Actively sought Western imaations that would make it equal

> Describe the Ottoman "recapture" of Egypt.
in Ottoman territory but the sultan largely lackal
power
The Mamluks in Egypt
Sultan sent
army
to retake in 1801

> Who was Muhammad Ali? Describe his rule in Egypt and his efforts to industrialize Egypt.
Albanian Ottoman officer that became gorems of Egypt. Acted somentet independently of sullen, beneficial but otherwile left to own devices
if it
was
Established schools, started first Islame would naspaper, high tax rates contated agricultural cotton
Pushed Egypt textiles/firearms
ол
joining
persents toread then to give by land,
to indestialize, built textiles / freams futories - First great modern ruler of Egypt

> Why was Japan isolated from European contact from 1600-1854?
Adapted isolationis and wanted to avoid Western influence

> Why were Europeans nations interested in trading with Japan?
Wanted to sell goods and
use
Japan
as
a
coaling station

> Who was Commodore Matthew Perry and how did he open trade with Japan?
US commander who wanted to trade with Sapm. Did so by threatening them with warships/power Other stats folland suit

> Why did the Japanese overthrow the shogun and restore power to the emperor? What is that event called?
Jayan wanted to keep their culture after what happened in China
They over ther the shogun protect themselves
in
1868
the Meiji Restoration to use Western techndagy to

> Describe the reforms instituted by the Meiji State. How did the government finance the reforms?
Abolished fendalism (1868, Charter Outh)
Built railroads and runds.
sake
rize ure)
Constitutional monarchy bed offfrusin, expeir rules through subordince politiel later Equality be for lav, andished crud punishments
Reorganized military based
th
pany & conscription
New school system for technical fills
Subsidized industrialization (ten, sille, werpes, ships, rize.
Financed though high agricultre tax

> What impact did private investment have on Japan's industrialization? What were the zaibatsu?
Encouraged innovation to earn investors
Zaibatsu were family business ogaiztons with large ldiverse portfolios
(like US gonglomerates)
like Alphabet, Meta, etz

> Choose 1 country discussed and explain the role that their government played in the process of industrialization.
Open-ended

> How were Muhammad Ali in Egypt and the Meiji State in Japan similar? How were they different? Provide at least 3 points of comparison
Open-ended