> What economic theory replaced mercantilism? How did they differ?
Capitalisa / Laissez-fare replaced mercantilism
Minimal government involvement and reduce tariffs

> What impact does increased trade have on consumer goods?
Availability, affordability, variety increased

> What is a corporation? What are the benefits of being a stockholder in a corporation?
Business chartered by government, owned by stock holders
Stockholders eam dividends when corporations do well, not liable for losses

> What is a monopoly?
Control of a specific business and elimination of competition

> What is the Bessemer process and how did it lead to a monopoly?
Bessemer pocess was a more efficient
way
to produce steel
Alfred Krupp of Germany had a lage company (Esser) that gaved a monopoly

> Who was Cecil Rhoades? What project did he endorse? What caused the project to fail?
Rhoades was British, founded De Beers Diamonds
Endorsed a railroad project to run from Cape Town, South Africa to Cairo, Egypt Failed because Britain never gut all the lund

> What is a transnational company?
Operated in multiple countries, across national boundaries

> What is the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC)?
British and bank focused on finance, corporale investments, global banking Opened 1865, tran ntiona

> What is Unilever?
Britisht Patch venture
on
household goods like soap
Immense wealth due
Loctions in Australia, Switzerland, US by 1890
Sourced from British West Africa and Belgian Long Later

> What is a sole proprietorship?
Bussiness owned by
a
single person

> What is a partnership?
Small
group of people make business decisions

> What are the four features of a corporation?
Limited Liability - Won't lose more then investment
to being transnational
Transferabilty of shares - Can be easily transferred between investors
Juridical Personality - Corporation acts as "person"! make contracts, hold
"person"! can sue
and be sual,
property
Indefinite Duration - Corporation
can live
Longer
then
Owners

> What is Lloyd's of London?
Originally a coffee house, helped establish insurance industry

> Why did banking and insurance industries develop?
Merchants and entrepreneurs needed a reliable
way
to deposit and withdraw money

> What is consumerism? How did consumerism impact production?
Protection and promotion of consunt interests Living standards rose Demard needed to keep up with supplies, so producers embarked nonessential goods.
so producers embarked on advertising for

> What leisure activities developed during the industrial period?
Biking boating

> Why did companies, encourage workers to participate in athletics?
Sports
were
Generated
thought to encourage self discipline and playing by the rules for equipment businesses
revenue

> How did factory life lead to increased interest in material goods and leisure entertainment such as parks and music halls?
Workers spent most time in factories, so they wanted leisure to
escape

> Which was more significant: changes in the way businesses were organized or the development of the consumer culture? Why?
Open-ended