> Why did industrial working conditions lead to calls for labor reform and economic/political change?
The working conditions were harsh, which sparked resistance and calls for reform
Mary Harris, "Mother" Jones and John Stuart Mill were amory the people uncovering the wad Mother

> Describe factory working conditions in the 19th century.
Dangerous, unsanitary, lov
wages, long hours

> What are labor unions? Why did they initially begin as secret organizations?
Organizations of workers that advocated for rights and barganing with employers Begon in secret because the government vicured them as enemies of trade

> How did the development of unions impact worker pay, worker schedules, and voting?
Created minimum wage lars and overtine,
pay
Limited number of hours worked, established five day work week
Sperkal a movement for working cless empower ment, led to reform bills expanding suffrage for Beduced requirements like popech ownership

> What changes to child labor occurred in the late 19th century?
1843 low banned children under 10 from working in coal mines
1881 madatory education between 5-10

> How did the industrialized world of the 1800s differ from Adam Smith's world when he wrote Wealth of Nations?
Smith wrote in an
age
of entre pre nearship and small business
1800s sour large transnational basinesses

> Who was John Stuart Mill? Describe his philosophy of utilitarianism.
British philosopher 1806-1873 against" inhumane" capitalison
Utilitarianism would allow labor unions, limit child labor, ensure safe working conditions "greatest good for the greatest number of people"

> Who was Karl Marx? Why did Marx dislike utopian socialists?
1818-1883 German sekoler and writer who argued for socalism Disliked utopion socialists becaue he thought they wanted to
men
Gradual reform by addressib capitalism's problems
"scientific socialin" vs confront problems
escape

> Who was Friedrich Engels?
Wealthy supporter of Mark, helpal publish Communist Manifesto in

> Describe the Communist Manifesto's critique of capitalism. Include proletariat, bourgeoisie, and means of production.
Advanced feudalium with wea Proletariat - Working class, little compursation
math wealth hat needless poraty but
Bourgeoisie-
Middle class linvestors who ownal mediest factories
1848
means
of
Because bourgeoisie owned the production, they received most wealth while proleriat received just enought to survive

> Who was Mahmud II? Describe his reforms in the Ottoman Empire.
Sultan who ruled Ottoman from 1808-1839
1826 abolished Janissaries for a Europen-traind Massacred revolting Janisseries
1831 abolishal fedal system to ensure Loyalty
Built roads Set up postal service
group
Government directory of chrities to fight religies charities European-styled ministries

> Describe the Tanzimat reforms that followed Mahumd II's reforms.
Sulfurs wokend to remove corruption
Halli Jatengen Updated legel apton, Equal pleation Ottoman Reform Efzt 1856 Government appointments, equil
justre,
Secular education with colleges for target purpose
I Cars established by
Lodified Ottoman las and crated
regulated millets ner ones that make it easier for foreigners to do business.

> In what ways were women excluded from the Ottoman Empire's reforms?
Most
nev
industrial jobs want to
men
Ended women's right to distribal pasporty lach to bemily
Secaler conts removed fimited popletty control

> What oppositions to reform existed within the Ottoman Empire?
Sultan Abdulhamid drae refer advocates (Yong Turks) into extre
1839 Tanzimat reborens don't mention women
Anger in minority groups Urmenian / Assyrin Christions), re assessed 100k-250 Armonies in Hamidin

> What was the Self-Strengthening Movement?
China's reform effort in late 19th century
late 19th century
+
Helped governmat face internal & external problems

> How did China hope to benefit from the Self-Strengthening Movement?
1894-1896
religions Comanities
Massacres
Strengthen in competition with militry techadagy and redness and manufacture items for ships/fieaming
Freach+ British helped
Diplomatit cops & catons service to collect importlerport tax

> Who was Emperor Guangxu? Why did he agree to the Hundred Days of Reform? What were the Hundred Days of Reform?
Emperor in defent in Siro Taquere War 1884-1885, met a clubtal by Kang Yarwor
Agreed to return to help fix the government, persuaded by Yarei.
Abolished outdated civil
servile exam,
Western-styled
exan, elininde corruption, establah Western styled industrial, comercial, medical systems

> Who was Empress Dowager Cixi? Why did she overthrow Emperor Guangxu and end his reforms?
Gruangan's aunt and adopted mother
She was
a
conservative and feared foregs influence, so she resisted reform Iner technology

> What issues existed within the Civil Service?
Weallly used Live Serve to get furors Governant reseme dropped as
as a
result of bribes.
Non-qualified people purchining civil service positions

> Describe China's relationships with foreign governments.
Europears wanted Chinese charge, initially resisted with Empers Cixi and 1000 Boxer Rebellion Still modernized and had to accept Western help/ "protection""
US defended from Japenere invarer after 1905 Russo-Japore War, signed Treaty of Rustspunth to

> How did Japan end the samurai tradition? How did the samurai react to the end of their tradition?
1871 gare a
find payment and disolved positive (elder statesmen)
Some served as genros
Others resisted and defended rights and autorony

> Compare and contrast Turkey's (Ottoman Empire), China's, and Japan's paths to industrialization.
Turkey - Earliest, but Abdelhamid become moe conservatte after sure reforms
China - Later, Cixi started sleeptical but be came more liberal
Japan - Dramabil, rapid charges study with Meiji in 1863, but speed pomptal backback from conservatives

> How are utilitarianism and utopian socialism similar and different? Provide at least 3 points of comparison.
Open-ended

> Compare and contrast the Tanzimat and the Self-Strengthening Movement. Provide at least 3 points of comparison.
Open-ended