> How did industrialization affect people's everyday lives?
Children worked in factories.
Poor women worked domestically and in textiles
Middle class had free time for entertainment

> Describe the Industrial Revolution's affect on urban areas. Include tenement, slum, standard of living, disease, fire, and crime.
Rapid growth with poor planing
Fies and crime were rampart →→ Created policel fire departments
Tenement apartments crammed in slut low-income residencies
Inhumane, standard of living
Disene like cholera spreal quickly
→ Better sewage

> Who were the working class?
Labored in factories and coal mines.
Eventually standard of living increased
Helped with quick production but only assisted in part, for skills and replaceable

> Who were the middle class?
Factory and office managers, small business owners,

> What is a white-collar worker?
Mostly middle class, worked in an
office
professionals

> Create a metaphor to explain the new industrial social structure.
Corporation owners/industrieksts
Middle class/white coller
Working class

> Compare farm work and factory work in terms of schedules and family proximity.
Farm fanties worked closely together and factories forced people to leave neighborhoods for the dy
to earn money
Farmers had their own schedules, whereas factories had rigd break thes, It-har days for 6 dys/week created exhaustion, injury, and death

> How did industrialization impact children?
Low wa
wages
forced children into work
Damaged lungs
as much as adult
Oppressive heat in coal mines
Unhealthy cool dest
Collapses and floods were constant threats

> How did industrialization impact working class women?
Worked in coal mines and textile factories, earning halt of men's vages

> How did industrialization impact middle class women?
No factoy work, stayed at home as a house wife

> Describe the "cult of domesticity".
Promoted by advetisly to a female honemaker, selling products to better the house Pamphlets on thow to care and behave in the home

> How did industrialization lead to feminism?
Middle-class women at home had opportunities to advocate for equality for women

> What environmental issues developed because of the Industrial Revolution?
Toxic air pollution from burning fossil fuels
Srang (smoket fog)
Water pollution
Chderal typhoid

> What are the benefits of mass production?
Made goods cheaper,
more abundant,
more accessible
Attracted jobs for new opportunities

> Create a pro/con chart for the Industrial Revolution. Did the Industrial Revolution overall benefit or hurt humanity?
Higher standard of linky
Pollutin
Incrased inequalities
More efficient
New technologies
More abendast
Changed work life second colonization Chargal family life
15
search of, ras
materials ar
New job opportunities
More crowdry
Moe crive

> Create an industrial society social hierarchy. Include at least 5 levels in your hierarchy (something like the Casta System) and be able to explain why each group is located where they are in your system.
Open-ended