> Why are the Silk Road and Indian Ocean trade routes not considered "global" trade routes? What event led to the first truly global trade routes?
Only crossed Afro-Eurasia, not the Americas
The Omani-Europen rivalry led to Columbus's travels, leading to "discovery" of Americas and trade

> What led to the establishment of the maritime empires?
Extensive trade in Spain, Podigal, Great Britain, Fans, Holland
Angker 7 suger, tobacco,
Africe slaws
Asia→ silk, spices,
shabab

> What regions were linked by the trans-Atlantic trade route system?
Americas, Europe, Africa,
Need for wealth

> What caused Europe to begin exploring? Include demographic pressures, primogeniture laws, and religious conflict in Europe.
Demographic pressures involved workers who could no longer find work + food because of the largen & population land to only the eldest son, and others had to search for land,
gave
Primogeniture Lars Lack of tolerance for religious minorities forced then to relocate

> In what ways was Europe connected to Africa and Asia prior to European exploration? Indian Ocean trade (Red Sea)
Land Boutes (Silk Roads)

> Why did Europeans increasingly participate in the Indian Ocean trade system in the 16th century?
Increase
wealth and religious converts

> What was the Omani-European rivalry? How did it lead to Europeans exploring westward? Portugal attempted to set up forts
In
One but Middle East wanted to put them out, leady to compofition heed to explore west for a new route.

> What are the European maritime empires?
Spain
Portugal
Great Britan
Frame
Holland (Dutch

> How did Europe advance its naval technology and knowledge?
Awareness of ancient classical knowledge combined with new knowledge Al-Andales diffiwad krawedge into Europe

> Who was Prince Henry the Navigator? What are his contributions to European exploration?
Portuguese ruler
Never sailed for but funded explorations in Africa before others

> How did the following advancements increase naval safety?
Knowledge of Knaledge of tides
Gravity
Predict low tides reliably to avoid dangerous rocks
Astronomical Map of stast galaxies
Charts
Stern Post Rudder
Astrolabe
Guide direction, determined location
Better ship movement
Stablized
Margaten
Lantin from equitor for navigatio and avoid getting lost
Compass
Point to one Orientation
specific location
Catch
wird to be used
15
Lateen Sail
Moe
Square
New Ship
Carrade
Trade
Designs, like Card
Long ropy-topped
Improved efficiency
the Caravel Flat
Trade

> What are the long-term results of increasing naval technology by the late 1400s?
Rapid expansion + global trade
Gunpowder → Conquest
Growth of trade cities Russia influened by Europe

> There are several examples of technological advancements in 4.1. Identify at least 6 of them and then create 2 categories to organize them. Be able to explain why they belong in each category.
Open-ended

> Considering the spread of technology as the effect. What was the cause of the spread of technology?
Open-ended