> What were the political and economic reasons for exploration?
Political - Italiens controlled Asian prices
Economic- Riches like gold & silver.
Technology - Breakthrough male, nangation easier Culture Expard Chritianity

> Why did Italian cities have a monopoly on trade of Asian goods in Europe?
Better navigation techniques

> Who is credited with "discovering" the New World?
Christopher Columbus (1451-1506) in 1492

> How did conquests bring new wealth to states?
Tax collection and material wealth (silver).

> How were rivalries and religion motivating forces for European exploration?
Rivalries Cansed expansion for fear of
a rival claiming beforehand, Christianity was universalziny, Europens thought their duty to actively converts

> Why were states involved in maritime exploration?
Political Economic, Tech, Religion, Rivalries
Presently religion

> Describe mercantilism.
Selling mach me
goods to other countries compared with buying them, in order to maximize wealth. Heary government involvement.

> Describe Portugal's role in early European exploration.
Led the way in exploration & innovation. State intered closely tied with explorers
t

> Explain the role of each of the following Portuguese explorers: Prince Henry the Navigator, Vasco de Gama, Batholomew Diaz
194-1460 First Europem monarch to foster seafaring explorations
Prince Henry
the Navigator
Vasco de
Gama
All-water route to east
search
Oversers slave trade began
Afrim gold search
Sailed to India (1998) and claimed Portugues ports-key to
expardin Indian Ocent est trade
Bartholomew Sailed around south tip of Africa (lope of Good Hoyd into nev
Diaz
waters before returning
114881

> Why did China's exploration efforts end?
Ended after Zheng He's voyages
Ewopen attempts to convert Chinese met with hostility Impressed Chinese with learning


> Describe Portugal's entry to Indian Ocean trade. How did Portuguese exploration impact
China?
Brutal takeover of Malacca
Didn't directly import Chim but brought future missionaries attemptry to spread faith

> What is a trading post empire? Why is Portugal's maritime empire considered a trading post empire?
instead of
trade to create a monopoje terators to inthuence. Portuguere set up may fob tout pats to gi

> What elements made Portugal's empire vulnerable?
Small nation, lacked works tequipent for enforcement & Merchants Government corruption

> What was the impact of Portuguese exploration to Japan?
ignoe government
Large Catholic settlerent formed, eventually outlared and expolled in 1600x

> Which nation was the first to circumnavigate the globe? Which explorer is credited with the circumnavigation? Did he really make it all the way around the world?
Spain was the first, vediting. Ferdinand Magellan
Magellan died and didn't make it, but
one
of his ship, did

> What is annexation? Which area of Indian Ocean trade did the Spanish annex?
An annexation adds a territory to a nation. Spain annexed the Philippines after Magellan's fleets onits

> What is the significance of Manila in Spanish exploration?
Became a commercial center for Spain, attracted merchants

> What was the religious impact of Spanish exploration in the Philippines? Occupation cased Filipinos to convert to Christian

> What rekindled Europe's interest in exploration after little initial success? The Spanish made contact with Asterst Inces, which possessed gold & silver Enslaved Natives Africans

> What was slavery's impact on continued exploration?
Helped European countries gain walth through cheap labor in sugul to beco

> What is a galleon?
Heartly around ship employed by the Spanish, transported silver to Philippines

> What was silver's role in the global economy?
Employed
as
a
a
reguler cursery for luxury goods like silk. Chine adopted silver as the
main Currency,

> What was the northwest passage?
The northmet passage
vas a
route through North America to get to East Asia


> What were the French goals for exploration?
Looking for northwest Hoped for gold
passage,
claimed borders of modern day Canada + valuable goods

> What is the significance of Quebec?
Trudiy post primarily for furs, indigenous schods,

> Who were the French explorers? What did they accomplish?
Jacques Cartier Sailed from Atlantic, into St Lawrence
Samuel de Champlain
René-Robert
Cavelier Sieur de
La Salle
Clained pot of Carele
Ford valuable goods
Fourd vuludde goods to settle in Curada
Explorad Great Lakes, Mississippi River, Clained Gulf of Mexico

> How was French exploration different from English and Spanish exploration? Rarely settled permanently, traded more and better relations with natives slower growth

> What is a sea dog?
English pirates, sometins attarbed Spanish

> How did English victory over the Spanish Armada change global naval power? The defeat of the Armada enabled England to declare itself
and compete
h
the Americas

> What is the significance of Jamestown?
England's first successful colony
In
a major
naral
pover
the Ameriaus,
in Virginia

> Where were the first colonies in present-day USA located?
Sparsh settle wat in Florida + New Mexico

> What did Cabot and Hudson accomplish?
John
Sailed Claimed land for Britain in Landa
for
Cabot England
Henry
Shorter route through Atlantic us
Colombus
River clained river, Manhattan
Sailed Sailed Hudson
for the
Hudson Dutch Settled New Amsterdam (New York City).

> What is the significance of New Amsterdam?
Important for trade
Fors / tobacco purchased,
→ Sent to Europe for manfiend goods

> What caused many port cities to prosper?
Trade with the
from do tance
region
+ across ocen
allowed cities to accomalte wealth.

> Select one government/state/monarch and explain the role that they played in encouraging maritime exploration.
Open-ended

> How did maritime exploration change the lives of people in Europe? Organ. The Portugune government sponsored
Open-ended