> Why did Europe develop empires?
Political-Conflict I quest for power.
Religious Conversin
Rialries
Economic Gold

> Compare Europe's role in trade with Asia vs. trade with the Americas.
Asia - Luxuries for silverguld
Americas Agriculture

> What was the impact of the growth of the plantation economy?
New labor systems
Imeresed slave demand democraphic, social, cattral chages

> What is indentured servitude?
Contracted to work for

> What is chattel slavery?
"Property," bought and sold
passage

> What served as the foundation of the maritime empires?
Exploration, claiming Lord

> How did Portugal set up trading post colonies?
Started along African coasts and fineread by government

> What was the Kingdom of Dahomey's role in the slave trade?
Gren walthy from slave trade, raided village for dares

> How did the Portuguese enter Indian Ocean trade? What was the impact of their entry?
Invaded Swahili city-staty in East Africa
Brutal takeover resulting in derobtry dedine

> Why did Japan limit European trade? How did the Japanese view Europeans? Initial tolerance lal to conversion to Christianity, viewed them

> Compare China and Japan's paths to isolationism.
outsiders. "uncouth"
Japan - Perseente + expid any thy foreign, secluded trade I Europe, limited trade with East Asia China-Limit trade, revest to former traditors before Yuan, rebuilt Great Wall

> What empires had claims to India?
British East India Company - Commercial reats us with Mughed
Podigal - Trading post in southwat (Gron)
France - Pondicherry, southeast city

> How did the British East India Company conquer India?
Trading posts Incred
Rower
by taking advantage of Medial Hinch tensions, sprend influence

> What was the British Global Network?
Trading posto around the world (nodes) served as a netwerk of trade

> How did Hernan Cortés conquer the Aztec Empire?
Helped by conquered groups
Destroyal treasures cities to found Near Span + Mexico city

> How did Francisco Pizarro conquer the Inca Empire?
Captured rater to dered gold, still killed outer and conqued by 1572
(1533)

> How did the Treaty of Tordesillas divide the world?
Grave Brazil to Portugal, the rot of America to Spain Meridiam line

> What territories did Spain conquer/control? Mesoamerica, South America, Mexico.

> Describe the competition between France and Britain.
Wasted dominance in North America.
War French out of India + Canada.
Britain allied with Iroquois before 1701 Gout Pense of Montreal
(the French and Indian War)

> What changes and continuities occurred regarding Indian Ocean trade during the Early Modern period?
Continuity - Same mothers of business, taxes, right to me
ports, free trade
Change - More trode, Enopen influence, milita, vs relationship trade, armed posts

> What is Hispaniola?
Island of modern day Haiti + Dominien Republiz
Columbas conized gold is plentiful

> Describe the encomienda system.
Encomenderoollard armors) compelled indigenes to nok for food+ shelter (like manorialim)

> Who were conquistadors?
Spanish conqueror

> Describe the hacienda system.
Coerced Lake to wok on
fields
Villayos compelled to send a percentage for dangerus jahis thou

> How did the encomienda system differ from the hacienda system?
Encomienda offered something in return, hacienda did not

> How did the discovery of silver impact Spain and the New World?
Revied fortunes, created siber
minng
centers
wage

> Describe mercantilism. How did it serve as a contributing cause of European exploration
and conquest?
Increved
govenment control high thrifts to make the most profit Crain as much geldi silver as possible

> Describe the different types of labor systems in the Early Modern period.
Indentured Paid for trad by owner, work to
Servants
chattel Considerad property, bought esald
Slavery
Debtor Slavery
In dett to owner, work to
rapy
gain
Freedom
Encomienda Simile to morialiom worked on land in return for foodeshelter
System
Hacienda Coerced labor / mandatory for villages, based off mit'a system
System
Mit'a System
Youry
required to deride some
time to public projects

> What did slavery look like prior to European exploration of the Americas?
Demonstration of wealth&par
Enslavement for homebold workers
Slared in the Africa
Had
sone freedom

> Why did Africa become the primary source of slaves in the Early Modern period?
Scarse labor, diverse derestatal native populations, familiar with territory to evade Africans willing to sell slares

> What is a barracoon?
Holding pars in West Africa, "slare castles""

> Describe the Middle Passage.
A gively journey across the Atlantic, Cramal, little God/water, little mover at room
Middle part of captines'
journey

> What were the impacts (social, cultural, and demographic) of the Atlantic Slave Trade?
Decline in home country populations
Stakes of enslaved, social classes, seperatil familjes, frequent Polygyag
Enriched culture + language, maltiracial people

> Compare and contrast the Indian Ocean slave trade and the Atlantic Ocean slave trade.
Indian Ocean Long-running Seaports/households
Slaves → Africa
Both
Attastic Ocem Plantations
Freedon rights, culture
Confinnat Bound for life

> Why would a nation establish a trading post empire instead of a colonial empire? What are the pros and cons of each?
Open-ended

> Explain the two sides of an example of European empires competing for control of an area or good.
Open-ended

> What are three types of labor systems used in the Early Modern period? Compare and
contrast each of the three you select.
Open-ended