> How did maritime empires transform commerce?
Lood bater to international trade with gold/silver Sont stock companies

> What is capital?
Material wealth, goodslitens

> How did capital impact laborers?
Exchanged goods allowing laborers to become consumers and invertors

> How did the Western hemisphere increase global capital?
The gold and silver allowed for more wealth to be gained.

> Describe the Commercial Revolution and explain why it occurred.
Tranformation to goldfiler based, led to inflation with incresse in money in circulation (Price Pendation) Caused by maritive exples, new trade routes, incresed pagulation, increased add / silver

> What is a joint-stock company? What benefit did joint-stock companies provide?
Owned by investor to share
poßit risk. Linted liability made sure no investor was responsible for
delt, making investing sater

> What was the British East India Company?
Jont-stock company based for Eriglad

> What was the Dutch East India Company?
Joint-stack
conjay
bered from Holland/ Netherlands

> How did investing in France, England, and the Netherlands differ from that in Spain and Portugal?
France, England, Netherlands joint-stock company
Spain, Portugal Goverment invetement through greats

> What advantages did the Dutch enjoy in commerce and trade?
Middlemen,
set
upt maintabel trade routes to Americas Africa, Entrerin
Fader tighter hips, successful joint-stock company, high standard of living

> What is a financial bubble?
shre
Speculatie fanncial schemes, investors promised reben, dried prices up, decline/bable bursts, bankraplay and Ocon damage

> Describe the triangular trade.
Americos send raw goods to Europe.
Frrope seeds goals to Africa Africa sady slaves to Americas, Americas send rar Encope sends manufactured good to Aurions, Amenes sand com to Africas

> What role did Morocco play in the Indian Ocean trade conflicts? What caused the collapse of the Songhai Empire in West Africa?
Portagal ainord to contol Indian Ocem trade routes, failed to
Conquer
Moroco's depleted supplies enconged them to invade and defeat Songhai
Morocco.

> What is a monopoly?
Granted merchand, I joint-stool government the exclusive right to trade, creats contal gous wealth

> Describe the changes and continuities in trade networks during this time period.
monop dies like tobacco for Spain
New
Traditional markets continued 7 increased roamer with improved shipping

> What were the effects of the Atlantic Slave Trade on Africa?
Gender
Culture
Predominant male shes → wore imbalance
→→
over privers and
pdy gym, and women tube on men's roles
Imbalance → pdy gym
Improved diet-> Population youth
Economi African societies captoed slams for wealth
CS
Slave hade resulted in
guas, allowing those in the tede to easily conquer and out more
Warfare
brutal was

> What political changes were the result of European conquest and colonization? Include viceroy and audiencia in your answer.
Spanish and Portuguese replaced Indigenous straches, Spanish viceroys acted as administators and ctizes could apped to royal court (audiencias) to ensure viceroys were loyal to crown.

> What cultural changes were the result of European conquest and colonization? Include creole, native books, and language in your answer.
Conqueran berand native books, making history accuratan difficult and possibly unreliable. Transplanted largergs into Averiza, Spanish + Podagane dominant
pa
Credes (Spanish origih, born in Auriend began vying for indepodane for New Spain

> How did European conquest and colonization lead to syncretic belied systems in the Americas? Include Santeria, Vodun, Candomblé, Islam, and the Virgin of Guadalupe in your answer.
African religions made their way to Americs from dhe trade, mold with Chestiunt, I Catheliom Santeria - Popala in Cuba "way of the samb"
Africa Amerian church roots
Vodun - Mored for Dahoney, Kongo, braba to Haiti "spirit/deity" Ism-1110 Africas Muding, first sightient Telmic Candomblé - Brazil "dance to have the gods"
presence in Amricas.
Virgin of Guadalupe- Indyenge person why was revered for
performing, mirades

> What caused the different religious conflicts in the Early Modern period?
Chizh algerous de celebrated
Split of branches
"(Suanil Shila)
Split of church
(Lathole/Protestant)

> Define the commercial revolution. Define the price revolution. How did these impact the way of life in Europe and European colonies in the 16th and 17th C. (the 1500s-1600s)?
Open-ended

> Define syncretism. In what ways did enslaved Africans and Indigenous Americans contribute to and were impacted by syncretism in the Western Hemisphere?
Open-ended