> What did the Fronde attempt?
Attempt to curbl reduce the gaonly royal power

> What led to Metacom's War?
The pressure that colonists engloyed to contul native lands

> Who was Queen Nzinga and what was her impact in Africa?
Buled Nolongo, allied with Portugu! until it broke down
Took
Matamba, allied with Dutchy incited Noongo rebellion, offered fredon to class

> How did serfdom internally weaken Russia?
Over
Weakened sental government & increased nobility power opposed sets and foreal peasants into
serfdom

> How did serfdom originally benefit Russia?
Kept peasants way contol, provided free lobor

> Contrast Russian serfdom with Western European serfdom.
Russia kept serfs under rule long after Elizabel I Greed seats in 1574.
1649 Lar sthahed serfs to hand

> What is a mir?
Village comme
controlled small landowners

> Who were the Cossacks?
Warrion from the steppes, fought both against and for the tor to defend "Mather Prussic"

> Who was Yemelyan Pugachev and what was the impact of his rebellion?
Cossack who rebelled agahut Colberte the Great in 1774 by falsely claim to be Catherine's murdard husband Increased pensant oppression rode support, avanding future revolts
bo
gab

> What toppled Mughal rule in India?
Maratha Empire, Hindu warrior group

> Describe the Pueblo Revolt.
1680 against Spanish in New Mexico
Pueblo & Apache fought colonizes who wanted religions conversion
t
Reconquead n 1692
dainoqz

> Describe the struggles for power both within England and its colonies:
Maroon
Wars and Queen
Nanny
Enslaved people in Cambber & form Sparsh clonies fought to gan freedom
Maroons descended from shery excaped,
Onea
Nanny
unbed them
Gloucester Fudd US slae revolt (Virginia, 1663) Country Conspired to dead Creedons arreted before it happened
Rebellion
Metacom's Philip's War)
War
Final offert of indigenous to drive Britain from New England
Protestant King James II anti-Protegent marines, enraged. William (nepholdson-inter) invaded vs. Catholics England, Janes fled, began Protestant rule
& the
Glorious Strengthed parliament, for bade Catholics to rule
Revolution
Portuguese
British

> Summarize the internal and external challenges:
Russian
Dossrell Pugacher rebellion
Pushed out of South Asia by Datchet English in Welongs
Rebellion
Lare/ Indigenas / Religious rebeling
French
Fronde attempts to reduce royal power
Pueblo Aprone Realt
Spanish

> Revolts/revolutions are examples of internal challenges to state power. Summarize one revolt: who led it, where, why did it happen, what was the outcome?
Open-ended

> Why were so many rebellions a failure? Were there ways in which they were successful
even when they failed?
Open-ended