> Why did social hierarchies change in the Early Modern period?
Charge due to infernal & external refellions

> How does the treatment of Jewish people demonstrate the different ways in which majority groups treated minority groups?
Europen states drove them out like Ottomar provided a haven

> In what ways did states discriminate against groups?
Religion, ethnich, socil clas
Ey Hagenck (Protestant) in France (Catholic)

> What tensions existed in the Ottoman Empire between the military elites and the absolutist rulers?
pool capole with writocracy
Janisering and for more against seltens
Attempted
comp

> How did the Ottoman Empire treat religious minorities?
Tolerald Tears+ Christing, even invited them after expulsion Contributed to society
Weaker sulten led to gaining power
vizios (adriors)
Wve a specte are, pay jizya, can't hold top positions

> Describe the religious toleration of the Mughal Empire.
Therant of all religions, renord jizya
A are grants to Hindus/ Masterd Cathiers / Silching

> What was the role of women in the Ottoman Empire?
Social & politied ras in court
Harem politive, trying to porte children as heirs

> Describe the social classes of the Ottoman Empire.
Endard Pesarts-> MerdubblArtisan Aristour di Janissaries 7 Shtan
-7

> Who were the Barbary Pirates and what role did they play in the capture of slaves for the
Ottoman Empire?
Ner North Africa sea
Captured Europens and sold to high rankry oftrids.

> Describe the social hierarchies within Qing China.
2
Merdany
Pessut
Autry Schelors Buracrag Manchu

> What conflicts occurred between the Han and the Qing in China?
Required to braid as queses for loyalty to Marchas
Han defectors, massacred, rebres of

> Who was Le Chengdong?
Li Changday organized 3
Han Chinese Greal
policy
massarry
Jaiding n
or meth

> Who was Liu Liangzuo?
Han Chine defecter killed extract, of Jimg yin (14000-10000)

> What is the nobility in Europe? What benefits did they enjoy?
Below royalty, wealty Landowners
what special priveleges, inheritance of fithes

> How advances did the nobility enjoy in England and the Netherlands?
Active part of government
Dutch parted stille suppt
English controlled Parlant

> What losses did the nobility suffer in France?
Failed Long
upiny Consinal tenis XIV to restrict common+adaith
Writes criticize nobility
pr

> Contrast the views of King Louis XIV and Frederick of Prussia regarding the role of the
monarch.
"I on the stake" Absolate morardy
Louis Frederice "I
the frot somat of the state" contallal power.

> What are Sephardic Jews?
Jers with Spanish descart

> What are Ashkenazi Jews?
Ders with certallest Earge descent

> How did the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment benefit the Jewish people?
Prejuding declined
Important in barly I commre
Nellolands most beant

> Describe the Russian social hierarchy. Who were the boyars? Who were the serfs?
Serts
ל
Pearts Lughed as
Boys Royal
Lindoors andort

> Who was Ivan IV?
ake Ivan the Terrible (murded an)
Fored familes to Moscar for survellane

> What impacted the social hierarchies of the Americas in this period?
Europens, Afrim slaves, disease

> How did skin color come to play a role in social status in the Americas?
Signibel par
t
statu, makry & pustil Eropers superior

> Describe the casta system of Latin America. Include the peninsulares, criollos, mestizos, mulattos, and sambos
Mived-and
Custas
Zamber Mulattos Mestizos
Indigest an Afrin &
Equ
→ Criollos Evropen arcedy
→
Peninsulares
88
in Andras.
Ewropea
Born on Theria pensala
Indijenos

> Identify and explain one way in which a religious group was persecuted or oppressed. Identify and explain one example of religious tolerance.
Open-ended

> What was the casta system? What were the various levels of this system? Compare and contrast it with the caste system of India.
Open-ended